Now let's talk about exposing endpoints.
In earlier versions of Spring Boot,
enabling an endpoint meant that it was automatically exposed.
Since Spring Boot 2.0, you must explicitly expose endpoints.
Exposing an endpoint makes it available for consumption,
so for instance, if you wanted to be able to access the endpoint via HTTP,
you would need to ensure that it's exposed via HTTP.
Just like enabling and disabling endpoints,
Spring Boot Actuator allows you to configure what endpoints
are included or excluded for exposure.
As of recording this course,
there are two supported methods for exposing actuator endpoints,
HTTP and JMX.
By default, all endpoints are automatically exposed via JMX.
Consuming endpoint data via HTTP is typically the more
popular method used and endpoints are not,
however, exposed via HTTP by default and you must configure them to do so.
The only exceptions to this are the health endpoint and the info endpoint.
It's very important to point out the dangers of
exposing endpoints if they're not secured,
especially via HTTP.
We'll talk about securing endpoints in later sections,
but I wanted to point this out now to emphasize its importance.
Depending on the endpoint,
exposing it to the public without any security could unnecessarily
expose sensitive data or even worse sensitive operations.
It's really easy to expose endpoints via some configuration values.
In this example,
we'll use the application to our properties to show the configuration,
but this same configuration can be equally applied to an application.yml.
Just like enabling or disabling endpoints,
the properties for exposing endpoints follow a standard naming convention,
management.endpoint .protocol,
and remember this could be one of HTTP or JMX .expose .include or exclude.
For example, if you only wanted to expose the metrics endpoint,
you'd set the property.management .endpoint .http .expose .include equals to
metrics where metrics is the ID of the metrics endpoint.
And as another example,
suppose you didn't want to expose the beans endpoint via JMX,
you'd set the property in a similar manner,
management.endpoint .jmx, instead of HTTP,
.expose .exclude, instead of include,
and then equals beans where beans is the ID of the beans endpoint.
Lastly,
it's important to note that there is a special asterisks value
which can be used to match all endpoints.
For instance, you could use it to expose all HTTP endpoints at once.
Also, just a heads up,
if you're configuring these properties in an application.yml,
instead of an application.properties,
make sure you surround the asterisks with quotes as asterisks have a special meaning in YAML.